# Batch-Procesing-with-ArcGIS-python
Introduction to batch processing and GIS automation using Jupyter Notebooks

Published by Dr Damien Mansell, University of Exeter

Discover why Jupyter notebooks are fast becoming the de-facto environment for exploratory analysis and guided data insights; focussing on batch processing of spatial data using ArcPy python toolboxes.  Jupyter Notebooks have rapidly grown in popularity among data scientists with >2.5 million notebooks publically available and growing exponentially. With ArcGIS Pro &amp; Jupyter notebook integration, the ArcPy python toolboxes are easily accessible. Coupled with the unrivalled ability to integrate code with visuals such as graphs and markdown text, Jupyter notebooks lend themselves for education including both learning and assessment. Single lines of code can be surround by text of either instructions, or space for learners to explain the outputs and workflow.   In this session Dr Damien Mansell form the University of Exeter will introduce the benefits of interactive python and how he teaches IPython to his students from single lines of code in ArcGIS Pro, to students applying code to run batch processing tasks in notebooks. A notebook and sample data will be available, so if you want to work through it during the session bring a laptop. Alternatively sit back and discover though the live demonstration. The notebook will not just require access to ArcPy Python package but OS and Pandas, demonstrating how these third-party packages can work together for work flow automation and data visualisation.
